README.md, before:

# IArtificial Intelligence with Python - Notebooks Repository

This repository accompanies the book **"Artificial Intelligence with Python"** by Juan Sellés. It contains example notebooks extracted and adapted from the content of the book. The original images from the manuscript have not been modified..


## Contents

- `1_EDA.ipynb` — Exploratory Data Analysis (pandas, matplotlib, seaborn): ejemplos de histogramas, boxplots, heatmap.
- `2_Regression_Linear.ipynb` — Regresión lineal con scikit-learn (ejemplo simulado).
- `3_Classification_Tree.ipynb` — Clasificación simple con DecisionTreeClassifier y visualización del árbol.
- `4_NN_Keras_MLP.ipynb` — Red neuronal simple con TensorFlow/Keras (ejemplo educativo).
- `5_Diffusion_Toy_Denoising_AE.ipynb` — Demo educativa: denoising autoencoder que ilustra la idea de "quitar ruido" (relacionado con diffusion models).
- `6_Transformers_Intro.ipynb` — Ejemplo de tokenización / pipeline de transformers (requiere instalar `transformers`).

## Cómo usar

Recomendado: abrir en **Google Colab** o en tu entorno local con Jupyter. Para Colab, sube el notebook o crea un nuevo Colab y usa `File -> Upload notebook`.

Requisitos (sugeridos):
- Python 3.8+
- pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn
- scikit-learn
- tensorflow (para notebooks 4 y 5) — en Colab ya está disponible
- transformers (opcional, para notebook 6)

Instalación rápida (entorno local):
```bash
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn tensorflow transformers
```

## Licencia y atribución

Repositorio del libro original. Para referencia del mismo, ver: https://www.amazon.es/dp/B0GDMKVZBK.

Si vas a usar el contenido con fines comerciales por favor contacta con el autor para respetar derechos y condiciones.

## Contribuciones

Si quieres mejorar los notebooks (añadir tests, datos, o mejorar visualizaciones), abre un *pull request* o un *issue* en el repositorio.

Commit message:

Translate README content to English
Updated README.md to provide English translations for content and usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# IArtificial Intelligence with Python - Notebooks Repository

This repository accompanies the book **"Artificial Intelligence with Python"** by Juan Sellés. It contains example notebooks extracted and adapted from the content of the book. The original images from the manuscript have not been modified..


## Contents

- '1_EDA.ipynb' — Exploratory Data Analysis (pandas, matplotlib, seaborn): Examples of histograms, boxplots, and heatmaps.
- '2_Regression_Linear.ipynb' — Linear Regression with scikit-learn (simulated example).
- '3_Classification_Tree.ipynb' — Simple Classification with DecisionTreeClassifier and tree visualization.
- '4_NN_Keras_MLP.ipynb' — Simple Neural Network with TensorFlow/Keras (educational example).
- '5_Diffusion_Toy_Denoising_AE.ipynb' — Educational demo: Denoising autoencoder illustrating the concept of "removing noise" (related to diffusion models).
- '6_Transformers_Intro.ipynb' — Tokenization Example / Transformers pipeline (requires installing transformers).

## How to Use

Recommended: Open in **Google Colab** or your local environment with Jupyter. For Colab, upload the notebook or create a new Colab and use 'File -> Upload notebook'.

Suggested Requirements:
- Python 3.8+
- pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn
- scikit-learn
- tensorflow(for notebooks 4 and 5) — already available in Colab
- transformers (optional, for notebook 6)

Quick Installation (Local Environment):
```bash
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn tensorflow transformers
```

## License and Attribution

This repository is part of the original book. For reference, see: https://www.amazon.es/dp/B0GDMKVZBK.

If you plan to use the content for commercial purposes, please contact the author to respect rights and conditions.

## Contribuciones

If you'd like to improve the notebooks (add tests, data, or improve visualizations), please open a pull request or an issue in the repository.
